[Music]
welcome to screen crush i'm ryan airy
before godzilla fights kong i wanted to
give you the backstory of this monster
verse because otherwise
you'll just be asking yourself wait why
is the monkey hitting the lizard
what events in their lives could have
possibly led to this point so
here's everything you need to know
before watching godzilla vs kong
this story begins millions of years ago
when creatures even larger than
dinosaurs roamed the earth
the planet was way more radioactive back
then so these creatures evolved to feed
off radiation
as the climate change they will um
spread into the earth to be closer to
the radiation at the planet's core
and so they hibernated for a very very
long time
fast forward to 1945 when the united
states drops atomic bombs on hiroshima
and nagasaki
this explosion awakens the strongest of
these ancient monsters
we call him
in 1954 the u.s navy lured godzilla to
the bikini atoll and tried to kill him
with a nuclear weapon but this
inadvertently mutated ocean life and
created a talking sponge
afterwards an international agency
called monarch was formed to study
godzilla
and others like him john goodman works
for monarch and is obsessed with proving
these monsters are real
so the military can fight them kill them
and probably eat them because
admit it you're curious what a godzilla
tastes like aren't you the year is now
1973 the vietnam war is winding down and
not everyone is cool with that
and we didn't lose the war we abandoned
it and i did what i had to do to win but
somebody wouldn't let us win
john goodman convinces the military to
send a few hueys onto skull island where
he thinks some of these
monsters are living the island is
surrounded by a permanent storm so very
few ships or planes have ever passed
through it and survived they're joined
by a mercenary named loki and carol
danvers a war photographer anti-war
photographer
the military meets kong and he does what
he does against aircraft
then there's this cut which is great
the humans are split into two groups and
they speed their way through the jungle
by use of needle
drops
[Music]
while the military encounters their
greatest enemy metaphors for vietnam
and i will not cut and run i know an
enemy when i see it
this is one war we are not gonna lose
do we get to win this time make him a
special gift out of that napoleon
i love the smell yes this is apocalypse
now
with a monkey kong also uses his
environment as a weapon like when he
turned this tree into a bat
the good guys meet john c reilly a world
war ii fighter pilot who's been stranded
on the island since benny goodman was
cool
he's living with a group of natives who
worship konk because and
this is important kong is constantly
fighting off these creatures called
skull crawlers look i just made that
name
up i like the name sorry i think i never
said that name out loud before it sounds
stupid now that i say just
you call them whatever you want some of
the things they were afraid of
started protecting them against the
things that were eating them so it turns
out that the earth
is hollow and filled with these monsters
they've killed kong's family and now
he's the last of his kind
condemned to fight a lonely life of
fighting these creatures to protect the
larger world
hey another metaphor we are soldiers
we do the dirty work so our families and
our countrymen don't have to be afraid
but kong doesn't just fight skull
crawlers there's also giant water
buffalo giant stick bugs giant squids
and pterodactyls
make a wish evil military leader gets
squished the good guys get away and
monarch finds drawings done by ancient
cultures that show that there is a wide
variety of monsters
about 25 years later in the philippines
archaeologists uncover the remains of
another monster with two spores inside
one spore hatches into a giant monster
that burrows to the closest radiation
source
a power plant in japan the monster's
subterranean arrival causes an
earthquake and destroys the plant
that's really bad news for brian
cranston and his wife who work at the
power plant
she dies and they evacuate the entire
city 15 years go by and brian cranston's
son has grown up to be aaron taylor
johnson and he's married to his sister
wife the scarlet witch he's a marine
stationed in san francisco but he's
forced to go to japan when his dad gets
arrested for breaking into the
quarantine zone see now brian cranston's
gone full john nash conspiracy theory
and with science
has determined that the government
shocker is hiding something
so they sneak into the city and discover
that monarch has been hiding a cocoon of
the monster that was from the
philippines
monarch is being run by ken watanabe and
sally hawkins from shape of water
and they're all like hey brian cranston
you know science right you're
goddamn right we learned that this
monster is called muto which stands for
massive unidentified terrestrial
organism
muto wakes up kills brian cranston and
starts making these sounds which the
scientists determine are mating calls
[Music]
so now muto is heading east to las vegas
where the other sport
its mate is hatching all seems lost but
ken watanabe has an idea
bring godzilla out of hiding and let
them fight
the monsters caused a tsunami and this
was doug's favorite scene wasn't it doug
yes doug likes the puppy run puppy run
so the military is going to nuke the
mudo but instead the monster steals the
bomb to build a nest around it because
these mutos are gonna
[Music]
then godzilla typical monster destroys
the golden gate bridge
godzilla does fight muto but the movie's
real enemy
is visibility like smoke fog
darkness ash and doors basically
about half the movie is people looking
up and reacting like this
wow no way godzilla kills the mudo with
his atomic breath
aaron taylor johnson takes the nuke out
to sea and he survives to join his
sister wife at the refugee center
and the people cheer the big monster who
just killed a bunch of their friends
one of the people who died was this
family's youngest son the parents are
whale scientists and their daughter
grows up to be millie bobby brown
so godzilla goes away for five years and
this family splits up
the dad i started drinking takes photos
of wolves and the mom works her monarch
figuring out a way to talk to the
monsters
she and millie live in china near a
cocoon monster named
mothra hatches the sonic communicator
works but then tywin lannister
shows up with his own private army to
kidnap mom scientists and millie bobby
brown tywin leads an echo terrorist
group that wants the monsters to kill
humans
to allow the earth to heal that sounds
like evil grimace from marvel
he was scary yes doug like thanos good
boy
yes doug is a good boy meanwhile monarch
is under government scrutiny because
their whole
human lives are now meaningless position
so you'd want to make godzilla our pet
no we will be his basically the
government
always wants to destroy the monsters
settle up let's go kill this thing
and monarch always wants to let them
fight
that scientist wants godzilla dead
because he killed his son
i advise you to kill these things all of
them
especially him but monarch brings him
into their sealab 2020 base to help out
because he co-invented the monster
communicator and now he just wants to
save his family i just want my kids back
monarch has learned to track godzilla's
heartbeat across the world except
sometimes when he disappears into the
hollow earth
using these underwater tunnels like
wormholes just like
zipping around tywin lannister goes to
antarctica to wake up an apex predator
that's like godzilla
this one is called king hedorah and it
looks like a flying hydra
but then mom scientist wakes up this
monster because it turns out
that she was an echo terrorist all along
what see it turns out that she also
thinks there are too many damn people
and that we should let the monsters
thin the herd godzilla shows up and gets
his ass beat by king hedorah
now the apex predator the king wakes up
the monsters all over the planet
including a firebird called rodan whose
masterpiece of the gates of hell is
humanity's great unfinished work of art
next to ralph boxy's lord of the rings
okay sorry all the monsters converge
jets fight against rodan godzilla fights
king hidori rips off his head
but you know if they cut off one head
two more shall take its place the
military sets off an
oxygen bomb that puts godzilla in a coma
but it does nothing to king hedorah
now king hedorah is the apex predator
and leads the monsters that are all over
the planet
and this ghidorah is the new alpha and
all all the other creatures are just
doing this bidding they're
they're an extension of them all hell
breaks loose dogs and cats living
together
mass hysteria and meanwhile millie bobby
brown totally hates her mom now
you're a monster you big fat
but then monarch figures out that king
hedorah isn't a regular monster
it's an alien monster an invasive
species that will destroy the planet
he's not part of our natural order and
he's not meant to be here
a false king an invasive species so now
even scientist dad wants godzilla alive
so monarch goes into the hollow earth
into the lost city of atlantis
all the legends the stars
they're true they really were the first
gods
ken watanabe jumpstarts his heart
sacrificing his life and giving us the
most tender human moment in the series
elsewhere mothra hatches from her cocoon
and everyone is like
no way and so mothra is queen of the
monsters
so her and godzilla they like
they got a thing going on nah man
godzilla and mothra are platonic
millie bobby brown sets off the monster
call box in boston the mom leaves tywin
lannister to save her
and all of the monsters and humans
converge on beantown
then there's a massive battle royale
mothra comes to help but idora takes her
out then he dora pulls the monster
version of a body slam and godzilla
is done the family reunites and the mom
is like i'm gonna redeem myself now just
go
go without me she turns on the monster
talker king hedorah is about to kill her
and then she gets in a zinger
as the box wakes up godzilla and he
destroys king hedorah
and the red sox's chances of winning a
home game this year
and now godzilla is the undisputed king
of the monsters
after the credits tywin lannister buys a
black market king hedorah head so he can
resurrect the beast
and that's everything you need to know
about godzilla and kong before they
face off if you have any questions
please leave a comment or at me on
twitter and if you're new here
please subscribe for screen crush i'm
ryan airy
[Music]
you